Organizing Committee

Moussa Amrani, Université de Namur
Dominique Blouin, Télécom Paris
Moharram Challenger, University of Antwerp
Joeri Exelmans, University of Antwerp
Randy Paredis, University of Antwerp
Robert Heinrich, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology

Steering Committee

Hans Vangheluwe, University of Antwerp – Flanders Make and McGill University
Pieter J. Mosterman, Raven Industries
Jeff Gray, University of Alabama
Vasco Amaral, Universidade Nova de Lisboa

Program Committee
    
Shaukat Ali, Simula Research Laboratory, Norway
Ankica Barisic, University Cote d'Azure, France
Fernando Barros, Universidade de Coimbra, Portugal
Francis Bordeleau, École de Technologie Supérieure (ÉTS), Canada
Jan Broenink, University of Twente, Netherlands
Alessio Bucaioni, Mälardalen Research and Technology Centre (MRTC), Sweden
Didier Buchs, University of Geneva, Switzerland
Paulo Carreira, Instituto Superior Técnico - Universidade Lisboa, Portugal
Moharram Challenger, University of Antwerp, Belgium
Andrea D'Ambrogio, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy
Istvan David, Université de Montréal, Canada
Julien Deantoni, Université Côte d'Azur, France
Ferhat Erata, Yale University, United States
Cláudio Gomes, Aarhus University, Denmark
Øystein Haugen, Østfold University College, Norway
Mauro Iacono, Università degli Studi della Campania, Italy
Einar Broch Johnsen, University of Oslo, Norway
Eduard Kamburjan, University of Oslo, Norway
Ulf Kargén, Linköping University, Sweden
Stefan Klikovits, Johannes Kepler University Linz, Austria
Letitia Li, BAE Systems, United States
Hassna Louadah, University of Huddersfield, United Kingdom
Ivan Luković, University of Belgrade, Serbia
Sadaf Mustafiz, Toronto Metropolitan University, Canada
Eva Navarro-Lopez, University of Wolverhampton, United Kingdom
David Manrique Negrin, Eindhoven university of technology, Netherlands
Ahsan Qamar, Ford, United States
Ivan Ruchkin, University of Florida, United States
Bran Selic, Malina Software Corp., Canada
Matthias Tichy, Ulm University, Germany
Mamadou Traoré, Université de Bordeaux, France
Javier Troya, Universidad de Málaga, Spain
Clark Verbrugge, McGill University, Canada

Objectives and Scope

Tackling the complexity involved in developing truly complex, designed systems is a topic of intense research and development. System complexity has drastically increased once software components were introduced in the form of embedded systems, controlling physical parts of the system, and has only grown in CPS, where the networking aspect of the systems and their environment are also considered. The complexity faced when engineering CPS is mostly due to the plethora of cross-disciplinary design alternatives and inter-domain interactions. To date, no unifying theory nor system design methods, techniques, or tools to design, analyze, and ultimately deploy CPS exist. Individual (physical systems, software, network) engineering disciplines offer only partial solutions and are no match for CPS complexity.
Multi-Paradigm Modeling (MPM) offers a foundational framework for gluing the several disciplines together in a consistent way. The inherent complexity of CPS is broken down into most appropriate views and architectures, at most appropriate levels of abstraction and expressed in appropriate modeling formalisms, each with precisely defined semantics. Often complex, collaborative workflows are modelled explicitly too. MPM aims to provide processes and tools that can combine, couple, and integrate the many concerns that define a system.
MPM encompasses many research topics: from language engineering (for DSLs, including their (visual/textual) syntax and semantics), to processes to support multi-view and multi-abstraction modeling, simulation for full-system analysis, and deployment. The added complexity that CPS bring compared to embedded and software-intensive systems requires consideration of how MPM techniques can be applied or adapted to these new applications, tying together multiple domains. Many remaining research questions require answers from researchers in different domains, as well as a unified effort from researchers that work on supporting techniques and technologies. The community needs a workshop setting to meet up and align past and future research activities.

Topics of interest

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

* Foundations of domain-specific modelling, with a particular focus on classifications of the various dimensions around MPM (formalisms; processes; related activities such as V&V, deployment, calibration, etc.; tools, and methodologies);
* Modelling language engineering, modular design of modelling languages, with a particular focus on de-/composition;
* Co-simulation, coordination algorithms ensuring correct simulation results
* Model Management with, and for, MPM4CPS: challenges, techniques, tools.
* Applications of MPM techniques in automotive, aviation, manufacturing, etc.
* MPM for (self-)adaptive systems
* MPM approaches, techniques and tools for related domains: IoT, Digital Twins, SmartCPS
* Social impacts processes in CPS, Large Data Management Modelling in CPS


Contributions should clearly address the foundations of multi-paradigm modeling by demonstrating the use of models to achieve the stated objectives and discuss the benefits of explicit modeling.

Important Dates

Paper submission deadline: 17 July 2023
Notification of acceptance: 15 August 2023
Workshop dates: September 1 - 3 October 2023 (exact date TBA)

Submission

Papers should be submitted electronically as a PDF document via EasyChair for one of the following topics. Each submission will be peer-reviewed by at least three PC members.

* Full research papers (10 pages* max) present a novel, innovative approach;
* Short papers (5 pages* max) present new ideas or early-stage research, extensively discuss the experiences of the researchers with an MPM approach or demonstrate a tool;
* Examplar descriptions (10 pages* max) describing a CPS Engineering practice, highlighting both the processes at play and the formalisms, languages and/or tools used to support these activities, all expressed using the language described in the Workshop's webpage.
* Extended abstracts (1 page) for a "lightning talk" (possibly accompanied with a Poster), i.e. a short, focused talk that can spark lively debate. 

(*) including references

All papers, except Extended Abstracts, will be published with the main conference's workshop proceedings; authors submitting examplars will eventually be invited to contribute to a Special Issue.
